# C++ Chess
Sam Oakes - oakessa@mail.uc.edu
Nick McClorey – mcclorns@mail.uc.edu
CS Final Project
Chess
Overview/How to Run
               We created a game of chess in C++. The game keeps track of the locations of the pieces, will only allow you to play according to the rules of chess and has a simple A.I. The board is best displayed with Mozilla Firefox. Google Chrome won’t work. Find the file titled “display.html” and open it with Firefox. Click in the window to refresh the board. This html file is only used to display the board, nothing else. All calculations and inputs are done in a C++ program through the command line. This board is just here to allow you to better visualize the game. As the game progresses, click anywhere on the opened html file to update the positions. The positions won’t update until you click on the firefox window. The html file pulls data from a JSON file called “current.json” which is in the “saved_games” folder. The C++ program puts all the data about the game into this file and the html file pulls this data from the file using AJAX. When a piece moves, the C++ program updates this file.
    This program compiled on both Windows and Ubuntu with the Mingw compiler.
How to Play
               Most of the input is done by entering a number corresponding to the option given by the program. Upon entering the game, the user will be prompted to choose between starting a new game or loading a saved game. We’ve included one saved game in our repository. After making a selection, the user will be prompted as to whether they want to play against the computer or with another player. Once this choice has been made, the game can begin. The user will be prompted to move a piece. This is done by specifying the piece to move followed by “to” and the destination. For example, “3b to d3” or “5Ctoe3” are both acceptable. It doesn’t matter whether the column or row are given first. Once input is entered, the user is asked if they are sure they would like to make the move. Their move will be displayed on the board (click to refresh). Saying no will undo the turn and reprompt user for a move.
Typing “menu” while playing the game will bring up an in game menu seperate from the main menu. The user may use this menu to return to the main menu, resume the game or save the game’s progress. Saving the game’s progress stores all the data about the current game in a JSON file located in the saved_games folder. Saved games must be named. It may not be named “current.json” and the C++ program will not allow the user to do so.
               Once a game has been saved, the user may exit the program and/or reboot the computer and can come back to the main menu to load the game. This is a big feature as parsing the data from the JSON file wasn’t easy.
File Recap
               main.cpp holds the mainMenu function which is separate from int main(). It also contains the functions for the general gameflow. Everything in this file is big picture, using classes and methods created in other files to create the overall game. It also holds many functions to test whether other functions are working properly. utility.cpp holds various miscellaneous functions. It also contains a function to translate user input. utility.h contains the function declarations.
ChessPiece.cpp and ChessPiece.h contains the class for an individual chess piece. This includes its type, team and other functions that mostly return information on the piece.
Chessboard.cpp and Chessboard.h hold the class for the chessboard. This class contains an 8 by 8 array of ChessPieces. It also features methods to check if a piece is allowed to move a certain way. One may think that the ChessPiece class should hold the function to check if a move is allowed by this function requires knowledge about where other pieces are on the board so these functions were put in the Chessboard class. This class also contains functions to read from and write to JSON files.
               Compile.bat and compile.sh hold the command to compile the project.
               update_board.js holds the javascript that allows the HTML file to update the graphical game board.
               README.md, .gitignore and .git are all files and folders associated with our git repository.
saved_games is a folder containing all the JSON files. It also contains game_names.txt which holds the names of all the JSON files so they can be presented to the user in the program.
